## i2x Data Hub Development 

This directory contains public data sets for development of an i2x data viewing
portal. The purpose is to support development and testing of software functions
that automatically retrieve and process the data. For other applications, please
use the links below to make sure you have the latest updates, including any
corrections made to the data by its curators.

- [Queued Up](https://emp.lbl.gov/queues) from Lawrence Berkeley National Lab (LBNL)
- [SolarTRACE](https://solarapp.nrel.gov/solarTRACE) with [download](https://data.nrel.gov/submissions/160) from National Renewable Energy Lab (NREL)

## Distribution System Interconnection Metrics

We propose twelve new metrics for tracking the outcomes of DER 
interconnection processes (units or selection choices are shown in square 
brackets): 

1.	**Rated Power** \[kW\]: (This is a single measure of the project size.
2.	**Technology** \[PV, Gas, Diesel, Wind, CSP, BESS, LFG, H2, Hydro, Other\]: Some of these have more output variability than others.
3.	**Stored Energy** \[kWh\]: Applicable to BESS.
4.	**IEEE 1547 Reactive Power Category** \[A, B, legacy\]: Commonly referred to as voltage and reactive power capability. “Legacy” applies to pre-2018 version of the standard. Category A is a minimum performance level required of all new DER in states that adopted IEEE 1547-2018. Category B adds capability for areas with “high” adoption of DER, or for DER subject to “large” variations in output.
5.	**IEEE 1547 Disturbance Category** \[I, II, III, legacy\]: Commonly referred to as voltage and frequency ride-through capability. “Legacy” applies to pre-2018 version of the standard. Category I is a minimum performance level required of all new DER in states that adopted IEEE 1547-2018; its requirements were derived from a German grid code for synchronous generators, which all DER can reasonably meet. Category II covers all BES reliability needs and coordinates with NERC reliability standards. Category III adds capability for areas with “very high” adoption of DER; its requirements were derived from California Rule 21 smart inverter specifications.
6.	**Location** \[Census Block Group\]: The census block group has a unique Federal Information Processing Standard ([FIPS](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/geography/guidance/geo-identifiers.html)) code, and up to about 3000 people live in one. We do not request street addresses.
7.	**Time from Application to Interconnection Agreement** \[days\], or blank if the project is not finished. This measures time taken by the utility to handle the application, including all studies.
8.	**Time from Construction Completion to Permission to Operate** \[days\], or blank if the project is not finished. This measures time taken by the utility for inspection and commissioning.
9.	**Status** \[active, operational, withdrawn, suspended\]: These are the same four status flags used in the LBNL Queued-Up data for BES interconnections.
10.	**Estimated Cost of Studies and Fees** \[$ quoted from the utility\]
11.	**Estimated Cost of System Upgrades** \[$ quoted from the utility\]
12.	**Final Cost of Interconnection** \[$ billed from the utility\]: This captures any difference from the sum of the two estimates.

These items would be readily available to utilities, as items 1-6 come 
from the DER application and items 7-12 are generated by the utility.  
They would support metrics on the time and cost of interconnections, 
correlated to location, size, type, and use of advanced standards.  In 
some cases, use of advanced standards can increase the ability of the grid 
to host DER.  The census-based location provides a link to demographic 
data for Energy Equity and Environmental Justice (EEEJ) metrics, and it 
can be aggregated into larger spatial datasets.  Size, cost, and location 
data may already be publicly available in some jurisdictions or service 
territories.  Specific project addresses, owner names, or developer names 
are not necessary; the census block group location is precise enough for 
analyzing process metrics.  When a DER project is large enough that only 
one or two could exist in a census block group, then items 1-12 could be 
identifiable to a single project.  Some stakeholders may be concerned 
about that, but this data will be important to measure process 
improvements.  

Interested states and utilities may a common data reporting practice.  The 
Queued-Up data for BES follows a uniform format, based on the underlying 
FERC and EIA reporting requirements.  This makes it easier to understand 
the BES data, identify gaps in it, and address those gaps.  A common data 
format for DER metrics would offer similar advantages.  

Copyright 2022-2023, Battelle Memorial Institute
